The Joe Rogan experience. When you put together the Snowden movie,
what, what was your aim like? What were you trying to get out of that? Well.
I knew it was important story because surveillance had no,
I never imagined surveillance at this level.
I realized that it could be every with this new technology we had that it could
be everywhere. I mean, beyond my imagination,
beyond anybody's imagination. And when I did the movie,
it was to reveal what he revealed, which was shocking in its implications.
We went even further and we showed how the control of information,
the use of information can destabilize many regimes and they went after regime
change became the new Mo the moot, new,
new modus operandi for the United States. It was okay to change.
Regimes were good at it.
And the way we did it with soft power subtle,
what happened in Brazil a couple of years ago, typical, you know,
the whole forcing out the president of Lola getting rid of the Dilma,
bringing in this, well, this other guy came in from the right,
but essentially Brazil was completely changed. Completely changed.
They're still working on it in Venezuela. They D they got,
they worked in Bolivia. They got, they got rid of the guy illegally,
Honduras, Libya, Libya, Libya.
That's the most spectacular failure. Right? Well, that was one of.
One it's a failed state now, but.
It was, uh, yeah. But, uh, that,
that comes down to our policy in the middle east. Yeah.
When you make a film like that, um,
how hard is it to put together? I mean,
the Stoughton film is so disturbing because it's, it's current, right? We're,
we're dealing with things that are happening right now.
How hard is it to put it down and make it this dramatic piece?
That's going to be enjoyable. It.
Was hard. You have to judge that for yourself. I like the movie. I think it's,
uh, it's, uh, it's tense and it keeps the,
it keeps the tension throughout the movie. Uh,
like of course I got to know sown very well and went to Moscow several times and
met with them. Oh, really? Yeah.
Uh, we had arranged.
Well, uh.
The bandana over your eyes. No.
I've done that too, but that was, yeah.
That was a terrorist groups in the middle east. But what was that for?
That was for a persona, non grata. It was a documentary I did about, uh,
in 2003 for about, uh, the leader of the, uh,
PLO. Well, Arafat. Yeah, I got, yeah,
I did an interview with them.
Wow. What was that? Like?
I was more, I didn't have, because of my connections.
I had more contact with the Israeli side. I was in Romola. So, I mean,
I was talking to Netanyahu before he was prime minister.
I was talking to the leader, the ex prime minister at the prime minute,
all that. And then I went to Romola,
which was the capital of the PLO there. And, uh,
actually I was there the day Israelis.
Then the day before the Israelis came in and knocked out that knocked out
the lights and they isolated, uh,
RFID and the Romola power. We, we got out at the last second actually, but, uh,
we were seeing, we were seeing RFR and, uh, Ty showing his side of the equation,
showing what he was thinking. So as part of that, part of that,
I went to see a terrorist group. They became quite famous later.
Then they're well known. They were young guys and they had their masks.
And I went at midnight. I was more scared of the Israelis and them real,
the Israelis could be tracking with they're all there.
They have all this equipment, you know, bug the out of us when we're in there.
I was, that's what I'm scared of dangerous. You thought.
The Israelis would do that, knowing that you were a filmmaker?
I don't know what they're thinking. You know, no me,
I'm not sure that they knew what we were doing. We saw,
they saw people going into a underground bunker with people with masks and
who knows what they think they have great reconnaissance.
Now you have to be careful when you fight them.
And so they requested that you wear a mask when they transport,
not Israelis, but I mean.
The transport of yes, but when I got there, I took it off. Did.
You, but with that decision, was that a tough decision to make,
to let them drive you around with a mask on? Um, no.
I was very anxious to meet them. They were, they were, uh,
they call them terrorists, but you know, who's a terrorist these days, right?
Uh, yeah. You know, we can bomb other countries to death.
It's call ourselves the good guys,
but we kill a lot of civilians around the world with our bombing.
This, that that's true.
But this message that you have that you,
you you're, you're not just the guy who makes movies,
but you're a guy who makes movies and also a guy who's very outspoken about all
of these issues in the world. Ah,
do those two get in the way of each other sometimes. Yes. Yeah, of course. Yeah.
There was people that think sometimes my outspoken,
this overshadows my work and it might be true for, but.
Well, they try to label you both ways too, which is really fascinating to me.
The world is complicated and I, uh,
I did speak out and some people think that's, they say,
I'm a filmmaker stick to being that. But you know, it's very hard if you care,
you know, this.
Well, it's, it's very important that you don't,
and I'm glad that you have the courage to not stick to that. Yeah. I mean,
I think it's when, when someone, oh, sorry, please cut it Snowden. No, no.
We couldn't get support for it. We,
it was financed ultimately from France and Germany and Italy,
and we got some, some small money at the end,
from the U S with a small distributor. I mean, this is the biggest story,
one of the biggest stories of our time.
And we couldn't get from any of the studios. We went to all of them.
Well, people are terrified of it. And.
That tells you a lot about what a mess we're in.
We don't even have the guts to talk about stuff. We shut up.
We censor ourselves. We self-censor. Yeah. In the,
in the 1980s and nineties, I probably could have gotten it finance, but not now.
Well.
It's such a tense time. And that, that issue is so polarizing.
And I don't understand how it isn't,
but I don't understand how it doesn't have universal support by American
citizens. Th th the, this story needs to be told. I mean,
even when he was discussed, um, as a podcast guest,
a lot of people were saying, you should really stay away from that. They don't.
Understand. They think he's some kind of Russian agent is crazy. You know,
he's very, been very clear about it.
Well, he's,
it's very clear when you listen to all of the interviews with him.
And then when I get a chance to talk to him, myself, he is who he says,
he is exactly a boy scout. Yeah. I mean,
he has a story and it's a spectacular one. And it's, uh,
it's one of the most important historical moments of our time that we
recognize that this overwhelming surveillance state
has, has existed without us even knowing it. And.
Cyber warfare too. It raises the whole issue of who's doing what to who you,
we were very quick to say, they're doing that to us, China, Russia,
this that they're doing their steel, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
What are we doing? Yeah. Yeah.